## About this codebook
This CodeBook.md describes all the variables in the tidy dataset (tidy.txt) generated by the R script run_analysis.R.
The original dataset (UCI HAR Dataset) can be downloaded [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).

## How the tidy dataset is obtained
Originally, there are 561 variables in the dataset (both X_train and X_test). The course instructions require us to "extracts only the measurements on the **mean** and **standard deviation** for each measurement". So by the regular expression *"-mean[(][)]|-std[(][])]"* used with *grep()* in R, the program extracts 66 variables.

Finally, the instructions say "Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject". So the program GROUPS the rows BY all the 6 activities x 30 subjects = 180 combinations (180 rows). Then for each group, transform all the remaining measurement variables into the average (mean) values within that group using *aggregate()*.

Therefore, in the tidy dataset, the first 2 variables are *activity* and *subject*, followed by the 66 *measurement variables in average values* for each of the {activity, subject} combinations.

## Description of the 68 variables
### Grouped variables (2)
1. **activity**: the human activity performed by the subject in the experiment. It is a factor with values in {WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING}.
2. **subject**: the identity of the subject (ID for the person participating in the experiment). It is a factor with values in {1, 2, ..., 30}, which means there are 30 subjects in the experiment.

### Measurement variables in average values (66)
The naming follows a certain pattern so we can break down the variable names into several parts in the following order:
* {t, f}: time or frequency domain.
* {Body, Gravity}: body acceleration signals or gravity acceleration signals.
* {Acc, Gyro}: signal measurement by accelerometer or gyroscope.
* [optional] {Jerk}: the derived Jerk signals.
* [optional] {Mag}: magnitude of the signals using Euclidean norm.
* {-mean(), -std()}: summary by mean or standard deviation.
* [optional] {-X, -Y, -Z}: signal component in X, Y, or Z axis within a 3-dimensional space.

These 66 real-valued variables are listed below. Remember, they are all in average values for each of the {activity, subject} combinations.

1. **tBodyAcc-mean()-X**
2. **tBodyAcc-mean()-Y**
3. **tBodyAcc-mean()-Z**
4. **tBodyAcc-std()-X**
5. **tBodyAcc-std()-Y**
6. **tBodyAcc-std()-Z**
7. **tGravityAcc-mean()-X**
8. **tGravityAcc-mean()-Y**
9. **tGravityAcc-mean()-Z**
10. **tGravityAcc-std()-X**
11. **tGravityAcc-std()-Y**
12. **tGravityAcc-std()-Z**
13. **tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X**
14. **tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y**
15. **tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z**
16. **tBodyAccJerk-std()-X**
17. **tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y**
18. **tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z**
19. **tBodyGyro-mean()-X**
20. **tBodyGyro-mean()-Y**
21. **tBodyGyro-mean()-Z**
22. **tBodyGyro-std()-X**
23. **tBodyGyro-std()-Y**
24. **tBodyGyro-std()-Z**
25. **tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X**
26. **tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y**
27. **tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z**
28. **tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X**
29. **tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y**
30. **tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z**
31. **tBodyAccMag-mean()**
32. **tBodyAccMag-std()**
33. **tGravityAccMag-mean()**
34. **tGravityAccMag-std()**
35. **tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()**
36. **tBodyAccJerkMag-std()**
37. **tBodyGyroMag-mean()**
38. **tBodyGyroMag-std()**
39. **tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()**
40. **tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()**
41. **fBodyAcc-mean()-X**
42. **fBodyAcc-mean()-Y**
43. **fBodyAcc-mean()-Z**
44. **fBodyAcc-std()-X**
45. **fBodyAcc-std()-Y**
46. **fBodyAcc-std()-Z**
47. **fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X**
48. **fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y**
49. **fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z**
50. **fBodyAccJerk-std()-X**
51. **fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y**
52. **fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z**
53. **fBodyGyro-mean()-X**
54. **fBodyGyro-mean()-Y**
55. **fBodyGyro-mean()-Z**
56. **fBodyGyro-std()-X**
57. **fBodyGyro-std()-Y**
58. **fBodyGyro-std()-Z**
59. **fBodyAccMag-mean()**
60. **fBodyAccMag-std()**
61. **fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()**
62. **fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()**
63. **fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()**
64. **fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()**
65. **fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()**
66. **fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()**
